README.md, before:

# Agentic Sound Editing Pipeline

An intelligent audio processing system that automatically enhances audio and video content by adding contextually relevant sound effects based on speech and video content analysis.


## Overview

This project implements an AI-driven pipeline that analyzes narrated speech, understands the semantic context, and intelligently inserts sound effects from a library of 2,120+ soundsor sounds generated by ElevenLabs models, at the most appropriate moments. 
The system combines speech recognition, natural language understanding, vector embeddings, and audio and video processing to create dynamic and engaging audio experiences.

**Key Capabilities:**
- Speech-to-text transcription with word-level timing precision
- Video context understanding
- Semantic embedding of speech content and sound metadata in compatible vector space
- Vector similarity matching between speech context and sound effects
- Score-based filtering to select optimal sound placements
- Automated audio mixing and synchronization

## Architecture

The pipeline follows a microservice-oriented architecture with the following flow:

```
Input (Audio/Video)
    ↓
[Audio Extraction] → Extract audio track from video
    ↓
[Speech-to-Text] → Transcribe speech with word-level timing
    ↓
[Speech Embedding] → Generate embeddings for speech segments
    ↓
[Sound Embedding] → Pre-computed embeddings for sound metadata
    ↓
[Vector Matching] → Calculate similarity scores between speech and sounds
    ↓
[Score-based Filtering] → Select best matches based on similarity thresholds
    ↓
[Audio Mixing] → Combine original audio with selected sound effects
    ↓
Output (Enhanced Audio/Video)
```

### Sounds

By default, sounds from the open-source sound library [SoundBible](https://soundbible.com/) are used.

The library contains mainstream sounds, but is not comprehensive.
For situations that require more subtlety, 
one can leverage the text-to-sound generation API from [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/sound-effects), 
which can further enhance the video experience.

## References
- [Eleven labs deref project](https://videotosfx.elevenlabs.io/)


## Configuration

### API Key Setup

Add to `.env` file:
```env
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
```
```env
ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Get your key from: 
- [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)

## Project Guidelines

### Microservice Architecture
Each pipeline step is designed as an independent module with clear inputs and outputs, enabling:
- Parallel development
- Easy testing and debugging
- Flexible deployment options
- Modular replacement of components

### Data Flow Conventions
- **Input/Output Folders**: Each module can dump intermediate results to designated folders for inspection
- **Audio Format**: Use `.wav` format for all audio processing (lossless, widely supported)
- **Metadata Format**: CSV files for sound libraries, JSON for configuration
- **Embeddings**: Store as CSV columns with array representations

## Current Status & Roadmap

The core components for speech analysis and semantic matching are functional. 
Current development focuses on:
- Audio/video extraction and format conversion
- Real-time audio mixing and synchronization
- Timeline generation and event scheduling
- End-to-end pipeline integration
- Performance optimization for large audio files

Commit message:

sounds: update readme and minor corrections

README.md, after:

# Agentic Sound Editing Pipeline

An intelligent audio processing system that automatically enhances audio and video content by adding contextually relevant sound effects based on speech and video content analysis.


## Overview

This project implements an AI-driven pipeline that analyzes narrated speech, understands the semantic context, and intelligently inserts sound effects from a library of 2,120+ soundsor sounds generated by ElevenLabs models, at the most appropriate moments. 
The system combines speech recognition, natural language understanding, vector embeddings, and audio and video processing to create dynamic and engaging audio experiences.

**Key Capabilities:**
- Speech-to-text transcription with word-level timing precision
- Video context understanding
- Semantic embedding of speech content and sound metadata in compatible vector space
- Vector similarity matching between speech context and sound effects
- Score-based filtering to select optimal sound placements
- Automated audio mixing and synchronization

## Architecture

The pipeline follows a microservice-oriented architecture with the following flow:

```
Input (Audio/Video)
    ↓
[Audio Extraction] → Extract audio track from video
    ↓
[Speech-to-Text] → Transcribe speech with word-level timing
    ↓
[Speech Embedding] → Generate embeddings for speech segments
    ↓
[Sound Embedding] → Pre-computed embeddings for sound metadata
    ↓
[Vector Matching] → Calculate similarity scores between speech and sounds
    ↓
[Score-based Filtering] → Select best matches based on similarity thresholds
    ↓
[Audio Mixing] → Combine original audio with selected sound effects
    ↓
Output (Enhanced Audio/Video)
```

### Sounds

By default, sounds from the open-source sound library [SoundBible](https://soundbible.com/) are used.

The library contains mainstream sounds, but is not comprehensive.
For situations that require more subtlety, 
one can leverage the text-to-sound generation API from [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/sound-effects), 
which can further enhance the video experience.

Generated sounds are then stored in the sounds bank, and their embeddings are cached, 
to be reused if necessary in comparable contexts, 
to guarantee consistent sound additions and leverage repetition effects.

## References
- [Eleven labs deref project](https://videotosfx.elevenlabs.io/)


## Configuration

### API Key Setup

Add to `.env` file:
```env
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
```
```env
ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Get your key from: 
- [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)

## Project Guidelines

### Microservice Architecture
Each pipeline step is designed as an independent module with clear inputs and outputs, enabling:
- Parallel development
- Easy testing and debugging
- Flexible deployment options
- Modular replacement of components

### Data Flow Conventions
- **Input/Output Folders**: Each module can dump intermediate results to designated folders for inspection
- **Audio Format**: Use `.wav` format for all audio processing (lossless, widely supported)
- **Metadata Format**: CSV files for sound libraries, JSON for configuration
- **Embeddings**: Store as CSV columns with array representations

## Current Status & Roadmap

The core components for speech analysis and semantic matching are functional. 
Current development focuses on:
- Audio/video extraction and format conversion
- Real-time audio mixing and synchronization
- Timeline generation and event scheduling
- End-to-end pipeline integration
- Performance optimization for large audio files
